# ex-07-checkerboard

## Overview

Checkerboard is based on the UI. It consists of a grid- a div, where elements (squares) are added into it. Grid doesn't need to have an id - the element can be picked up using the xpath.

## Directory set up

```
ex-07-checkerboard/ <!-- The parent directory -->
│
├── client/ <!-- Student's files -->
| ├── README.md
│ ├── index.html  <!-- MUST BE RENAMAED -->
│ └── mini-checkerboard.css
│
├── test/  <!-- Test suite files -->
│ ├── index.js
│ ├── selenium-framework.js
│ └── tests.js
│
└── package.json
```

## Tests

**`1. Driver exists and Loads`** : Checks if the driver is initialized correctly, and if the page loads. CRITICAL test.

*`2. Not Empty Title`* : Checks if the title is not empty.

**`3. Body is not Empty`** : Ensures that body is accessible. CRITICAL test.

**`4. 4 divs in the Grid / wrapped in a div`** : Ensures that the squares are added correctly. CRITICAL test.

*`5. Grid has an id and class`* : Follows the TODO instructions.

*`6. Grid Items all have classes`* : Ensures that all squares have classes assigned to them.

*`7. Grid Items have alternating classes`* : Checks if alternate classes are assigned for each square.

*`8. Grid Items are squares`* : Ensures that the dimensions are a square, and not 0x0 pixels.

*`9. Grid is a square`* : Ensures that the whole grid is a square.

*`10. GridItem Hover produces red bg, with white text saying hello`* : Ensures that the hover works as intended.

## Element Map

Below is how selenium maps the elements in the web page. This is used to perform actions on the elements. They can be edited according to how the user defined their elements.
```js
const elementMap = {
    grid : {
        type : "xpath",
        locator : "//div"
    }
}
```
For reference on how elements are accessed : 
```js
// Assuming the element we want is 'key'
const key = await driver.findElement(By[elementMap['key'].type](elementMap['key'].locator))
```