# ex-05-decoder-web-page

## Overview

Decoder web page requires implementation of the UI, which includes several web elements with ids and forms. The tests and selenium pick up the web elements using ids, and then performs actions on them.

## Directory set up

```
ex-05-decoder-web-page/ <!-- The parent directory -->
│
├── client/ <!-- Student's files -->
| ├── README.md
│ ├── index.html
│ └── decoderRingClass.js
│
├── test/  <!-- Test suite files -->
│ ├── index.js
│ ├── selenium-framework.js
│ └── tests.js
│
└── package.json
```

## Tests

**`1. Driver exists and Loads`** : Checks if the driver is initialized correctly, and if the page loads. CRITICAL test.

*`2. Not Empty Title`* : Checks if the title is not empty.

**`3. Basic elements have ids`** : Searches all the basic elements if accessible via selenium. CRITICAL test.

**`4. Key, Encode and Decode are input fields`** : Checks if the key, encode and decode are input fields. CRITICAL test.

**`5. Go button is enabled`** : Checks if the go button exists and is enabled. CRITICAL test.

*`6. Encode 'abcd' with reverse alphabet key is 'zyxw'`* : Checks if the encoder works correctly.

*`7. Decode 'zyxw' with reverse alphabet key is 'abcd'`* : Checks if the decoder works correctly.

*`8. Encode 'abcd', then encode 'zyxw'`* : Checks if the encoder works correctly when performing multiple times.

*`9. 3 Times Encode and Decode`* : Stress test to see if the inputs are cleared after each encode and decode successfully.

## Element Map

Below is how selenium maps the elements in the web page. This is used to perform actions on the elements. They can be edited according to how thte user defined their elements.
```js
const elementMap = {
    key : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'key'
    },
    encode : { 
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'encode'
    },
    encoded : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'encoded'
    },
    decode : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'decode'
    },
    decoded : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'decoded'
    },
    go : { 
        type: "css", 
        locator: "input[type='button']" 
    }
}
```
For reference on how elements are accessed : 
```js
// Assuming the element we want is 'key'
const key = await driver.findElement(By[elementMap['key'].type](elementMap['key'].locator))
```