# ex-06-decoder-interactive

## Overview

Decoder interactive requires implementation of the UI, which includes several web elements with ids and forms. The tests and selenium pick up the web elements using ids, and then performs actions on them.

## Directory set up

```
ex-06-decoder-interactive/ <!-- The parent directory -->
│
├── client/ <!-- Student's files -->
| ├── README.md
│ ├── index.html
│ └── decoderRingClass.js
│
├── test/  <!-- Test suite files -->
│ ├── index.js
│ ├── selenium-framework.js
│ └── tests.js
│
└── package.json
```

## Tests

**`1. Driver exists and Loads`** : Checks if the driver is initialized correctly, and if the page loads. CRITICAL test.

*`2. Not Empty Title`* : Checks if the title is not empty.

**`3. Only interactive.js is loaded and is a module`** : Follows the first TODO of only loading. CRITICAL test.

**`4. Buttons are removed`** : Ensures that the student removed the button to make it live update rather than update after pressing a button. TODO:1. CRITICAL test.

*`5. Box colors should be default`* : Checks colors of the box, to make sure that the default is colorless.

*`6. Key box color change interactions work as intended with only 26 unique alphabet characters`* : Checks the validity of the key. Should be 26 letters and not contain any duplicates.

*`7. Encode and decode color change interactions work as intended`* : Following the Todo to make sure that the colors of the elements change according to the documentation.

*`8. 3 Times Encode and Decode`* : Checks if the encoder works correctly when performing multiple times.

## Element Map

Below is how selenium maps the elements in the web page. This is used to perform actions on the elements. They can be edited according to how thte user defined their elements.
```js
const elementMap = {
    key : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'key'
    },
    encode : { 
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'encode'
    },
    encoded : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'encoded'
    },
    decode : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'decode'
    },
    decoded : {
        type: 'id',
        locator: 'decoded'
    }
}
```
For reference on how elements are accessed : 
```js
// Assuming the element we want is 'key'
const key = await driver.findElement(By[elementMap['key'].type](elementMap['key'].locator))
```